So with child routing almost finished,
let's make sure that we can create new recipes and that we can edit the existing ones.
So for this, we need a new component,
so let's generate this first. I'll use the CLI
again with ng g c and I want to store it in the recipes folder
and here, I will name it recipe-edit and I don't want to create this spec file which is why I set it
to false.
So with this ,if I shrink down the other files, we get this new recipe edit folder here with the recipe
edit component. We'll work on the content of this file after the forms section
but I already want to load it and I want to retrieve the route parameter. So to load this, what I
will do is I will go to my AppRoutingModule and I will register a new route here. The first route is for
a new recipe,
so maybe new would be a good path so that we have /recipes/new in the end
and with that, we could load our recipe-edit component here and of course you need to add the import here
from the newly created recipes /recipe-edit folder.
Also make sure that it was added to the app module and this is done automatically as always by the CLI
but you need to ensure that it is added to declarations and as an import here at the top, to have it
work correctly and to be able to load it.
So with that added here, we have our new recipe route. Now I'll duplicate it to also have a :id/edit
route maybe, so that we have the ID available in this route because we need to load it but I want
to have a /edit at the end so that it's clear that we're in editMode.
And this is the same component, that's also the recipe-edit component,
I will in the component determine whether we are in editMode or not.
Now with this set up here, if we go back to the application and we enter /edit after this, we see
recipe-edit works,
so that's great but we will see something maybe unexpected
if I try to go to /recipes/new. Now we try to load the detail component and therefore, we
get an error because it basically failed to get a recipe with the ID new
and that's exactly what went wrong here.
If we visit recipes/new, due to the way how we ordered our routes, it will try to parse new as
an ID because the route with the dynamic ID parameter comes before the route definition where we have
new hardcoded into the path.
So we should switch these two routes, so that the new route comes before the route with the dynamic parameter,
otherwise how would Angular know if whatever we pass right now should be interpreted as the new hardcoded
path or as a dynamic parameter.
So with this order, now we should be able to load new without any issues.
If we hit enter, that looks all right and we can also still load the existing recipes. So with that, these paths
are set up too, the missing piece is
now to retrieve the ID in the recipe-edit component and to determine whether we are in editMode or
not.